.TH cpan2tpkg 1 "January 2011"

.SH NAME

.B cpan2tpkg
\- Create tpkg packages from Perl CPAN modules

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cpan2tpkg
.RB [ --version | \-v
.IR VERSION ]
.RB [ --package-version | --pv
.IR PKGVER ]
.RB [ --extra-deps
.IR EXTRADEPS ]
.RB [ --native-deps
.IR NATIVEDEPS ]
.RB [ --force ]
.RB [ --help | \-h ]
MODULE

.SH DESCRIPTION

cpan2tpkg is a utility for creating tpkg packages from Perl CPAN modules. If
the CPAN module being packaged requires other modules those will also be
packaged and appropriate dependencies inserted into the various tpkgs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --version|-v " VERSION"
Specifies the version of the module to package.  By default the latest version
of the module will be packaged.
.TP
.BI --package-version|--pv " PKGVER"
The package version to set in the generated tpkg.  By default 
.I 1
will be used.  See the tpkg documentation for more information about package
versions.
.TP
.BI --extra-deps " NATIVEDEPS"
Specify any extra dependencies that should be added to the generated tpkg.
The dependencies are specified as a comma-separated list with the syntax of
firstdepname,minver,maxver,seconddepname,minver,maxver,etc.  Minimum and
maximum versions can be left blank if not required.  The following are all
valid examples:
.PP
.RS
--extra-deps mysql
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,,
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,5.1.33,5.1.35
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,5.1.33,5.1.35,nginx,0.6,0.6.9999
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,,,nginx,,
.RE 1
.TP
.BI --native-deps " PACKAGES"
Specify any native dependencies that should be added to the generated tpkg.
Syntax is the same as --extra-deps.
.TP
.B --force
Force the install and packaging even if tests fail.  CPAN will normally refuse
to install modules if their tests fail.  This allows you to package those
modules anyway.
.TP
.BR --help | \-h
Display the
.B cpan2tpkg
usage message and exit.

.SH BUGS

--version is not implemented at this time.

.SH AUTHORS

.B cpan2tpkg
is designed and maintained by Jason Heiss.

