.TH gem2tpkg 1 "January 2011"

.SH NAME

.B gem2tpkg
\- Create tpkg packages from Ruby gems

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B gem2tpkg
.RB [ --version | \-v
.IR VERSION ]
.RB [ --package-version | --pv
.IR PKGVER ]
.RB [ --extra-deps
.IR EXTRADEPS ]
.RB [ --native-deps
.IR NATIVEDEPS ]
.RB [ --install-options
.IR INSTALLOPTS ]
.RB [ --build-options
.IR BUILDOPTS ]
.RB [ --gem-cmd
.IR GEMCMD ]
.RB [ --rubygems-path
.IR PATH ]
.RB [ --extra-name
.IR EXTRANAME ]
.RB [ --help | \-h ]
GEMNAME1 GEMNAME2 ...

.SH DESCRIPTION

gem2tpkg is a utility for creating tpkg packages from Ruby gems. If the gem
being packaged requires other gems those will also be packaged and appropriate
dependencies inserted into the various tpkgs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --version|-v " VERSION"
Specifies the version of the gem to package.  By default the latest version of
the gem will be packaged.
.TP
.BI --package-version|--pv " PKGVER"
The package version to set in the generated tpkg.  By default 
.I 1
will be used.  See the tpkg documentation for more information about package
versions.
.TP
.BI --extra-deps " NATIVEDEPS"
Specify any extra dependencies that should be added to the generated tpkg.
The dependencies are specified as a comma-separated list with the syntax of
firstdepname,minver,maxver,seconddepname,minver,maxver,etc.  Minimum and
maximum versions can be left blank if not required.  The following are all
valid examples:
.PP
.RS
--extra-deps mysql
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,,
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,5.1.33,5.1.35
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,5.1.33,5.1.35,nginx,0.6,0.6.9999
.RS 0
--extra-deps mysql,,,nginx,,
.RE 1
.TP
.BI --native-deps " PACKAGES"
Specify any native dependencies that should be added to the generated tpkg.
Syntax is the same as --extra-deps.
.TP
.BI --install-options " INSTALLOPTS"
Extra options to the
.I gem install
command that gem2tpkg will run.  Most commonly used to control where gem gets
the gem from, via the --source option.  I.e.
.PP
.RS
--install-options "--source http://gems.example.com"
.RE
.TP
.BI --build-options " BUILDOPTS"
Extra options to the gem build process.  If you were running
.I gem install
manually these would be options placed after a -- on the gem command line.
I.e. these are not options to the gem command, but rather options to the build
process of the gem being installed.  Most commonly used to help the gem build
process find libraries.  I.e.
.PP
.RS
--build-options "--with-sqlite3-dir=/opt/tpkg"
.RE
.TP
.BI --gem-cmd " GEMCMD"
The path to the gem command to be used.  The configuration of that instance of
gem determines the paths that will be used in the generated package.
.TP
.BI --rubygems-path " PATH"
Path to the rubygems library.  Useful if the copy of ruby being used to run
gem2tpkg doesn't have rubygems in its library path.
.TP
.BI --extra-name " EXTRANAME"
Extra string to add to package name.  Used to distinguish packages of the same
gem built using different gem commands, and thus different directory
structures.  If not specified
.B gem2tpkg
will attempt to do the right thing automatically based on whether or not it is
using the default gem command.
.TP
.BR --help | \-h
Display the
.B gem2tpkg
usage message and exit.

.SH AUTHORS

.B gem2tpkg
is designed and maintained by Jason Heiss.

